It's important to understand what map actions does behind the scenes though.
So here I'm mapping to the increment and decrement actions
and actually this will create the following two methods for me and I'm just writing it out so that
you understand what map actions does here.
We use map actions to get access to our actions
but in the end, what these map actions function or helper here does is it gives us the increment method
where we can then call this store dispatch increment, that is all this map actions function does.
Now increment here could of course also take a value like the by property or argument here which you
then can pass to increment to tell it by how much to increment or to increase this counter
and then we could call increment with let's say 100 here to increase it by 100 on each click
instead of one.
That would be how we can do this and map actions and thankfully creates the method in just such a way
that we are able to pass on an argument automatically. So we can pass 100 here with increment and in store.js
here where we get or where we call our action, where we can pass the second argument here
too which is named payload,
you can name it whatever you like but payload is something you will see pretty often.
Now it's named payload because it's the payload of our action
and we can simply pass this onto our mutation because it turns out mutations also not only get the state
but as a second argument, they may also get a payload,
so we can then increment this by payload, like this. And if we save this and we click increment, you now
see it gets increased by 200 actually because we still duplicate it in our getter or we take it times 2 in our
getter
but you see at the number of clicks,
we actually increase it by 100 upon each click. So this how we can pass a payload
and of course we can do the same here for our decrement function,
so let me quickly do this, add the payload here too and decrease it by the payload and for that, I also
need to expect the payload here on decrement
and then this allows me to go to the counter.vue file or for that, I should still pass this of course
to the counter.vue file and actually, let's say decrease it by 50 on each click.
And this will make sure it gets decreased by 100 because again, I do multiply it with two in my getter
but on the clicks, you see it gets reduced by 50 actually.
So this is how I can pass a payload,
now what if you want to pass more than one argument?
What doesn't work is to add multiple arguments here,
so let's say in the another counter when we use the async increment, we want to set the width or the
size by which you want to increase it, for example to 50
so I'll increase it by 50 on each click
but then as a second argument, you also want to pass the duration for the async task.
Right now, that is one second hardcoded into my code here
but if I want to set this manually, I can pass it as a second argument because that's not how dispatch
works.
Instead what I can do is I can simply pass an object here as an argument and here, I can of course add
as many properties as I want,
for example the by property to set the step by which I want to increase the counter, so by 50
and then let's say the duration property, let's set it to 500 milliseconds
and of course I can do the same for async decrement, of course then I have to adjust my actions here
to also be able to fetch the payload here.
That still only is one argument here of course but we know this argument now is an object, so now I can simply
commit payload by here, by is the step size, payload by
and down there, I want to set this with payload duration because I know that I store this in this property.
And with that if I save this again, you now see the top buttons work as before
but the bottom buttons, they take a little while before it takes effect.
We see it actually is 50,
regarding the step size and timing wise I'd say it feels like half a second,
so it seems like the duration also works.
And this is how I can pass a payload with my actions to my mutations and I can either pass a
string or a number or if I need to pass more than one argument, I just pass an object as payload where
I set up all my key value pairs for as many properties I want to use.